C#

C# is a multi-paradigm programming language encompassing strong typing, imperative, declarative, functional, procedural, generic, object-oriented (class-based), and component-oriented programming disciplines.
It was developed by Microsoft within its .NET initiative.
C# is one of the programming languages designed for the Common Language Infrastructure. C# is built on the syntax and semantics of C++, allowing C programmers to take advantage of .NET and the common language runtime.
C# is intended to be a simple, modern, general-purpose, object-oriented programming language.



Java

Java is a computer programming language that is concurrent, class-based, object-oriented, and specifically designed to have as few implementation dependencies as possible.
It is intended to let application developers "write once, run anywhere" (WORA), meaning that code that runs on one platform does not need to be recompiled to run on another.
Java applications are typically compiled to bytecode (class file) that can run on any Java virtual machine (JVM) regardless of computer architecture.

In my opinion, Java and C# are similar languages, both of them are strongly typed, class-based object-oriented, and are "curly brace languages" as C and C++.
But most important similarity is that both of them compile to "intermediate lamguage".
Of course, the main difference between them, beside syntax, is exactly their environments for execution.



C++

C++ is a general purpose programming language that is free-form and compiled.
It is regarded as an intermediate-level language, as it comprises both high-level and low-level language features.
It provides imperative, object-oriented and generic programming features.

It is much faster than C#, but it is much harder to be mastered as well.



PHP

PHP is a server-side scripting language designed for web development but also used as a general-purpose programming language.

It differs from C# a lot. The main differnce is that PHP is a scripting language, while C# is a compiling language.
Also, their initial purposes were quite different, but nowadays they both are general-purpoise languages.



Javascript

JavaScript (JS) is a dynamic computer programming language.
It is most commonly used as part of web browsers, whose implementations allow client-side scripts to interact with the user, control the browser, communicate asynchronously, and alter the document content that is displayed.
It is also being used in server-side programming, game development and the creation of desktop and mobile applications.
JavaScript is a prototype-based scripting language with dynamic typing and has first-class functions.

The main differences between Javascript and C# are the same as between PHP and C#, although JS and PHP are not so similar.



Python

Python is a widely used general-purpose, high-level programming language.
Its design philosophy emphasizes code readability, and its syntax allows programmers to express concepts in fewer lines of code than would be possible in languages such as C.
The language provides constructs intended to enable clear programs on both a small and large scale.
Python supports multiple programming paradigms, including object-oriented, imperative and functional programming or procedural styles.
It features a dynamic type system and automatic memory management and has a large and comprehensive standard library.

The main difference is that Python is dynamic programming languages in contrast with C#.